[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Basically, all filters is
gonna do is it's going to be like map,
that it's gonna apply something
to every item in the list.
But, if it returns true,
it keeps it in the list and
if returns false then it takes out a list.
So, you can just filter out a bunch
of stuff that you don't need.
So, let's look at what that looks like.
>> Brian Holt: So
if I filter out odds, basically what I'm
gonna say is I'm gonna take in a number,
and if it's modulus two, that means
it's an even number that it's going
to return true and
that's it's going to stay in the list.
If it returns false by saying
num modulus 2 = 1 right?
It's not going to be equal to zero.
It's going to return false and this is
gonna be taken out of the list right?
So looking down here,
filter out odds right?
Notice that you get back
here just even numbers.
Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So
down here,
I have a list of just random people.
And what we're gonna do out here,
is we're gonna filter by state.
So it's gonna take in a list,
and it's gonna take in a state.
And if a person state ends up being this
in, this terms just like California,
Washington whatever.
>> Brian Holt: Then
it's gonna filter out those people.
So in this particular case, filter state.
If I filter by only people in California,
then it's only in return
people that have California.
And is gonna filter out everyone
from Utah, Oregon, Texas,
whatever.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
and then my filter, or this is basically
what filter looks like on the inside.
And basically it says, if you return false
then I'm not gonna do this if block.
But if it returns true,
then I'm gonna push you into the list.
>> Brian Holt: Any questions
about that about filter?
So hopefully you can see that
just with map filter reduce,
which I'm gonna say about, I don't know,
I'm gonna say it more than half of your
functional programming is an application
of one of those three functions.
You can chain those together and get
these running transformations that just
Transform your data into one thing
into exactly what you're looking for.
And so what you'll do is just take
one transformation at a time and
just keep applying it.
It's very readable.
It also tends to not be super
performant as you can imagine, right?
Cuz you're calling a lot of functions.
Usually it doesn't matter.
Usually performance is not
the bottleneck in this particular case.
Usually refactoring and having crappy
code is a lot bigger bottleneck for you,
like your team as a whole.
So usually what I do is I'll start out
with a functional programming style and
if that becomes not performant later
in the future, then I go back and
optimize and make it iterative or
something like that so.